---
path: "/guides/contributing"
title: "Contributing"
---

Welcome and thank you for contributing! The Recipe team is committed to maintaining consistent, quality components and guidelines. We welcome all feedback, designs, or ideas to produce the best possible experience for our users. Below are the contribution guidelines for contributing.

* [Process](#process)
  * [Proposing new components](#proposing-new-components-to-the-design-system)
  * [Component choices](#choosing-the-right-component)
* [Development](#development)
  * [Files and Folders](#files-and-folders)
  * [Creating Components](#creating-components)
  * [Documentation and live examples](#how-do-i-add-a-new-demo-to-the-documentation-site)
  * [Start Contributing](#start-contributing)

## Process

### Proposing new components to the design system

* Consult with Recipe team - review mocks, audit existing usage, identify emergent patterns, consider [component choices](#choosing-the-right-component)
* Component Implementation
* Submit PR for review to the Recipe team
* Apply feedback and land changes in Recipe OR refine component usage inside product

### Choosing the right component

Squads should challenge themselves to use the design system as much as possible. Designers should seek feedback on consistency and emerging patterns as a core aspect of design reviews.

In order of preference, squads should consider:

1. Using component from Recipe
1. Promoting an existing product-wide component to Recipe (via [proposal](#proposing-new-components-to-the-design-system))
1. Using an existing product-wide component
1. Using an existing 3rd party component (via a wrapper/facade to narrow the api)
1. Promoting an existing page component to a product-wide component
1. Choosing a new 3rd party component (and wrapping it)
1. Building a new component

### Approval

Approval is required for Recipe contributions only; we trust squads to follow component usage guidelines and make good decisions when using Recipe's component library in downstream products.

## Development

## Files and Folders

All components belong in `src/components` in their own folder.

Component names should be in the singular form and should be prefixed with `Ez`.

In order to keep files focused and file sizes small, functional logic is separated from stylistic logic, with a naming convention to ensure files are still colocated.

Example:

```dir
recipe
  - src
    - components
      - EzButton
        - EzButton.js
        - EzButton.styles.js
        - index.js
```

Index files should NOT contain any logic and should only be used to provide exports of named components.

In order to create a consistent directory structure, Recipe provides [tooling to help you get started creating components](#creating-components).

## Creating components

Recipe uses [plop](https://www.npmjs.com/package/plop) to generate new React components. The functionality is exposed as the `create-component` npm script from package.json. This will:

* copy the component template files from `templates/component` to `src/components/YOUR_COMPONENT_NAME`,
* rename all files to match your component's name
* replace all occurrences of `Component` inside the component's files with your component's name.

The `create-component` command will allow you to quickly get up-and-running with a component that follows our [folder structure and naming scheme](#files-and-folders).

To create a new component, run `npm run create-component` inside the project. You'll see a CLI that guides you through the process.

After the CLI has finished, all files will have been created in the location you specified.

Finally, you'll need to add an export for your component to `src/index.js`. For example:

```js
// inside src/index.js
export {default as EzButton} from './components/EzButton';
```

New components must:

* be [proposed](#proposing-new-components-to-the-design-system) to the Recipe team for consideration and guidance
* have comprehensive tests
* have comprehensive documentation
* follow our code conventions
* be reviewed and approved by the recipe team

### How do I add a new demo to the documentation site?

Recipe's documentation is generated from its source code. To supplement this autogenerated documentation, you'll need to create and modify a markdown file associated with your component. By default, the markdown file is created for you when you [create your component](#creating-components) and provides the structure you need to document your component and provided live examples.

Inside the markdown file, any [fenced code block](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/#fenced-code-blocks) decorated with the `jsx` language identifier will be enhanced with a live editor on the doc-site. You should use fenced code blocks to provide examples of your components in various supported states in order to document the component's features.

Example:

````markdown
### Secondary Button

Secondary buttons are used for action on a page that are important, but aren't the primary action.

```jsx
<EzButton use="secondary">Edit</EzButton>
```
````

## Start contributing

### Setup

Clone the repository and install dependencies:

```term
cd /packages/recipe
npm i
```

You'll also want to install dependencies for the doc-site:

```term
cd /packages/doc-site
npm i
```

### Working on a component

The doc-site provides live examples to document the various states of your components. The doc-site is a great environment to start developing your component as the environment has hot reloading and components can be added on the fly through various doc files. Look for any file in the component's folder with an `.md` extension for examples of component code that will run in the doc-site automatically.

You can run the doc-site as follows:

```term
cd /packages/doc-site
npm run develop
```

Go to http://localhost:8000/ to see the doc-site and http://localhost:8000/components/ to view all components.

### Testing

Testing in recipe is extremely important to ensure the quality of our downstream products. We therefore expect components to have 100% code coverage.

To run tests, run:

```term
npm t
```

This command will run the full test suite and output code-coverage statistics using istanbul. To view a breakdown of the coverage (statements, branches, functions and lines covered), you can view the coverage report (found in `/recipe/coverage/lcov-report/index.html`) in your browser.

To continuosly watch and run tests, run:

```term
npm run test:watch
```

### Publishing

After contributing updates to recipe, you'll need to publish the recipe package for changes to take effect in downstream projects. To publish, you need to:

* make sure your source is up-to-date and have run `npm install` from `packages/recipe`
* bump the package version number in `packages/recipe/package.json` (and lock file) by running `npm version major`, `npm version minor` or `npm version patch` (see our [versioning guidance](/guides/versioning-and-changelog#versioning-scheme) if you're unsure which to use).
* Update `changelog.md`
* run `npm run build` to locally build with the latest version that you wish to publish.
* run `npm publish` to publish the new version of recipe to npm
  * If you are not currently logged into npm, you'll need to run `npm login` using your npm username and password
  * If your npm user is not currently associated with the @ezcater scope, contact a Recipe team member to get you started
* run `npm install @ezcater/recipe --save` from `packages/doc-site` to update the version of recipe used by the documentation site
* run `npm run deploy` from `packages/doc-site` to update the documentation site with your changes
* run `npm install @ezcater/recipe --save` from the downstream project
* create a PR for the downsteam project
