---
name: EzAlert
title: Alert
category: Feedback
path: '/components/ez-alert'
tags: ['success', 'error', 'warning', 'info', 'tip']
---

Alerts represent highlighted messages on a page that call out important information. Alerts can be used both inline with page content as well as a subheader as a status for the entire page.

---

## Best Practices

Alerts should:

- Be brief
- Be positioned in consistent locations
- Not wrap `headline` text. For maximum legibility, use the `tagline` property for additional information

Alerts should not:

- Be used too often. They are meant to highlight important information and will be drowned out if used too frequently on a single page.

---

## Content guidelines

Alerts should communicate a clear message to highlight to customers. Emphasize the action within the headline, and save the tagline for further explanation or additional information.

---

## Examples

### Success Alert

Success alerts are used to highlight information that was generated by a successful / confirmed action.

```jsx
<EzAlert
  headline="Success or positive messages"
  tagline="Should be used sparingly."
  use="success"
/>
```

### Error Alert

Error alerts are used to highlight information that was generated by an unsuccessful action or error that needs to be remedied.

```jsx
<EzAlert headline="Serious warnings or errors" tagline="You need to fix something." use="error" />
```

### Warning Alert

Warning alerts are used to highlight information that was generated by a warning or caution the user to proceed carefully going forward.

```jsx
<EzAlert headline="Warning tips for customers" tagline="Proceed with caution." use="warning" />
```

### Info Alert

Info alerts are used to highlight general information and provide more context for the surrounding content.

```jsx
<EzAlert
  headline="Informational tips for customers"
  tagline="Here is something you should know."
  use="info"
/>
```

### Tip Alert

Tip alerts are used to highlight tips and other helpful information or materials.

```jsx
<EzAlert headline="Tips for customers" tagline="Helpful tips for you to remember." use="tip" />
```

### Marketing Alert

Marketing alerts are used to highlight product marketing information or materials.

```jsx
<EzAlert
  headline="Marketing messages for ezOrdering"
  tagline="Learn more about our products."
  use="marketing"
/>
```

### Alert without a tagline

Alerts do not require content and can be rendered with just a headline.

```jsx
<EzAlert headline="I'm just a headline" use="info" />
```

### Directional Alerts

Alerts can be tied to other content via a directional speech bubble arrow either above or below content.

```jsx
<EzCard>
  <EzAlert arrow="bottom" headline="Watch out!" tagline="I'm above some content." use="warning" />
  <div>Some content.</div>
  <div>More content.</div>
  <EzAlert arrow="top" headline="Great job!" tagline="We got below more content." use="success" />
</EzCard>
```

---

## Related components

- [Banner](/components/ez-banner)
- [Flash messsage](/components/ez-flash-message/)
