---
path: '/unreleased'
title: 'Unreleased changes'
---

## Unreleased Changes

#### Breaking changes

- Use `active` as the `activeClassName` in EzNavigation links. While we do not anticipate this being a breaking change for most consumers of Recipe, there maybe some observable changes due to the change in HTML generated by the component. In particular applications that contain a CSS rule that targets elements with a `.active` selector may be affected.

#### New components

#### Enhancements

- Refactored Recipe's internal component for generating icons to compose styles using Emotion's `styled` helper instead of relying on the class name generated by the `css` helper.

#### Design updates

#### Bug fixes

- Fixed clock icon positioning on EzField type="time". See See [issue 271](https://github.com/ezcater/recipe/issues/271)
- Removed `aria-labelledby` attribute from combobox element. This attribute/value pair was already applied to the combobox input, causing the latest version of `@testing-library/react` to fail to match a unique element.
- Fixed test code usage of `act()` (using `react-dom/test-utils` instead of `TestRenderer.act()`)
- Fixed warning raised by accidentally forwarding `loading` flag from EzButton to the underlying DOM element.
- Fix `Using kebab-case for css properties in objects is not supported. Did you mean marginBottom?` warning generated by the internal EzLabel component.

#### Documentation

- Remove usage of `javascript:urls` from component examples ([deprecated in React 16.9](https://reactjs.org/blog/2019/08/08/react-v16.9.0.html#deprecating-javascript-urls))
- Allow links within examples to trigger navigation of the parent window, rather than the iframe

#### Dependency upgrades

- Remove unused `babel-core` dev dependency. We're using babel 7 (and @babel/core), so `babel-core` is no longer being used.
- Remove `react-test-renderer` in favor of consistently using `@testing-library/react`.

#### Development workflow

- Created a lint plugin for recipe (`@ezcater/eslint-plugin-recipe`) for using static analysis to track Recipe usage in downstream applications.
- Updated Recipe's devDependencies used for build/dev tooling. This addressed some npm audit reported known vulnerabilities.
- Updated doc-site's package dependencies
- Remove usage of enzyme's shallow/mount methods in tests, in favor of `@testing-library/react`.
- Remove DOM snapshot based testing template. Recipe tests should include visual regression tests instead.
